OCPBUGS-38689 Adding module for user provided GCP service account permissions (#81586)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/minimum-required-permissions-ipi-gcp-provided-sas.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="minimum-required-permissions-ipi-gcp-provided-sas_{context}"]
= Required GCP permissions for user-provided service accounts

When you are installing a cluster, the compute and control plane nodes require their own service accounts.
By default, the installation program creates a service account for the control plane and compute nodes.
The service account that the installation program uses requires the roles and permissions that are listed in the _Creating a service account in GCP_ section, as well as the `resourcemanager.projects.getIamPolicy` and `resourcemanager.projects.setIamPolicy` permissions.
These permissions should be applied to the service account in the host project.
If this approach does not meet the security requirements of your organization, you can provide a service account email address for the control plane or compute nodes in the `install-config.yaml` file.
For more information, see the _Installation configuration parameters for GCP_ page.

> If you provide a service account for control plane nodes, you must grant that service account the `roles/compute.networkUser` role in the host project.

Reviewer: It seems (but not sure) like this appears on all gcp installs, but this is only relevant for XPN installs.

If you want the installation program to automatically create firewall rules when you supply the control plane service account, you must grant that service account the `roles/compute.networkAdmin` and `roles/compute.securityAdmin` roles in the host project.

> If you do not grant those roles, you must create the firewall rules manually.

Reviewer: You must at least grant the `roles/compute.networkUser` role or else the install will fail. It is when you supply `networkUser` that you must create the firewalls manually.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="minimum-required-permissions-ipi-gcp-provided-sas_{context}"]
= Required GCP permissions for user-provided service accounts

When you are installing	a cluster, the compute and control plane nodes require their own service accounts.

> The default scenario occurs when the user does not provide a service account email address for the control plane or compute nodes in the `install-config.yaml` file.

Author: due to technical limitations, we're not able to include cross-references inside of modules. I can see about a non-link reference here.

In this case the installation program will create a service account for the control plane and compute nodes, requiring additional permissions.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The following permissions are required for user-provided service accounts for control plane and compute nodes respectively.
====

.Required roles	for control plane nodes
[%collapsible]
====
* `roles/compute.instanceAdmin`
* `roles/compute.networkAdmin`
* `roles/compute.securityAdmin`
* `roles/storage.admin`
====

.Required roles for compute nodes
[%collapsible]
====

> * `roles/compute.viewer`
> * `roles/storage.admin`

Reviewer: We're getting a new role in https://github.com/openshift/installer/pull/8938
```suggestion
* `roles/compute.viewer`
* `roles/storage.admin`
* `roles/artifactregistry.reader`
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="minimum-required-permissions-ipi-gcp-provided-sas_{context}"]
= Required GCP permissions for user-provided service accounts

When you are installing	a cluster, the compute and control plane nodes require their own service accounts.
The default scenario occurs when the user does not provide a service account email address for the control plane or compute nodes in the `install-config.yaml` file.

> In this case the installation program will create a service account for the control plane and compute nodes, requiring additional permissions.

Reviewer 2: By "requiring additional permissions", do you mean the permissions listed in the new section "Required GCP permissions for user-provided service accounts"? Or, could you please tell what exactly you mean? Thanks!

Author: Yes, that is what was intended

Author: I misspoke. What I meant by "requiring additional permissions" was the issue raised in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPSTRAT-1294, where GCP raises a security alert because the installer-created service account requires the "Service Account Admin" and "Service Account User" roles. I was referring to these roles as "additional permissions".

> When you are installing	a cluster, the compute and control plane nodes require their own service accounts.
> The default scenario occurs when the user does not provide a service account email address for the control plane or compute nodes in the `install-config.yaml` file.
> In this case the installation program will create a service account for the control plane and compute nodes, requiring additional permissions.
> For more information, see the _Installation configuration parameters for GCP_ page.

Reviewer 3: Trying to orient this more around the use case, maybe something like this?

```suggestion
When you are installing a cluster, the compute and control plane nodes require their own service accounts.
By default, the installation program creates a service account for the control plane and compute nodes.
This service account requires the roles and permissions that are listed in <whatever module has these>, as well as the `resourcemanager.projects.getIamPolicy` and `resourcemanager.projects.setIamPolicy` permissions.

If this approach does not meet the security requirements of your organization, you can provide a service account email address for the control plane or compute nodes in the `install-config.yaml` file.
For more information, see the _Installation configuration parameters for GCP_ page.
```

Author: I'm incorporating this suggestion, except line 11 will reference the installer service account, rather than the created service accounts. Thanks

Reviewer 3: Update LGTM :rocket:

[IMPORTANT]
====
The following roles are required for user-provided service accounts for control plane and compute nodes respectively.
====

.Required roles	for control plane nodes
[%collapsible]
====
* `roles/compute.instanceAdmin`
* `roles/compute.networkAdmin`

> * `roles/compute.securityAdmin`

Reviewer 2: During my 4.17 testing of installing into GCP shared VPC, the control-plane service account doesn't have the role `roles/compute.securityAdmin`, see [comment](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38689?focusedId=25637781&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-25637781) section "[2]". cc @barbacbd @patrickdillon

Reviewer 2: Got it, the role is required in case of non-shared-VPC installation. Thanks!

* `roles/storage.admin`
====

.Required roles for compute nodes
[%collapsible]
====
* `roles/compute.viewer`
* `roles/storage.admin`
* `roles/artifactregistry.reader`
====

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The following permissions are required when the user does not supply a service account for compute and control plane nodes in the `install-config.yaml` file. The permissions should be granted in the host project.

Reviewer 2: Please see my [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/81053#discussion_r1766363192) in #81053, thanks!

Author: I think in the interest of getting this information into the documentation for GA, we should move forward with this PR and work on reorganizing it for more clarity after GA when we have more time.

Author: Here is a story to track this future work: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OSDOCS-12146

====

.Required permissions for creating service account resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `resourcemanager.projects.getIamPolicy`
* `resourcemanager.projects.setIamPolicy`

> ====

Reviewer 3: I thnk you might be able to drop this if restructuring the intro as I suggested actually works :sweat_smile:
